# Writing-course

Reference - [Write it Right](https://www.vishalkhandelwal.com/write-it-right-final-lessons/)

## Lesson 1: Writing is magic

The 3 key attributes to become a good writer –

- **motivation** – A reason to actually go through the trouble.
- **imagination** – To see what others don’t.
- **word-power** – Words that create magic!
  If you don’t have these attributes, or even one of them, you don’t qualify to become a good writer. In fact, it’s a self-reinforcing cycle.

## Lesson 2: Writing Is About Being Human

- MOST IMPORTANT QUESTION FOR WRITERS, HOW TO UNDERSTAND READERS WELL

## Lesson 3: It’s Only Words, And Words Are All I Have

- A WRITER’S MOST POWERFUL WEAPON, HOW TO CONNECT WELL WITH READERS, SIMPLEST WAY TO MAKE YOUR WRITING FRIENDLY

## Lesson 4 – Readers are like Kids

- A QUESTION TO CHANGE HOW YOU WRITE, TREATING READERS LIKE KIDS, DO NO HARM AS A WRITER

A reader will ask –

- Why has the writer written like this?
- Why has he chosen words that I don’t understand?
- Why hasn’t he explained things in an easier manner?
- Why is he playing games with my mind and not getting to the point?

## LESSON 5 – WRITING LESSONS FROM WARREN BUFFETT

Buffett’s Rules of Writing Brilliantly

- Tells stories
- Uses vivid language
- Brings in people
- Uses humour
- Shows enthusiasm
  Read Buffett to Become a Better Writer

## LESSON 6 – IMPROVE YOUR WRITING BY MAKING IT LOW GRADE

Flesch–Kincaid (F-K) Readability Tests.

## LESSON 7 – 5 QUICK TIPS TO CLEAR WRITING

Here are five quick ways to get better in writing.

1. **Talk** - Talk to your reader as you would talk to your friend.
2. **Specific** - Be very specific with your topic. Just write about one, and just one key idea.

3. **Care** - Care for your reader. Try to understand what he wants from you and expects of you, then write accordingly. Don’t embarrass him by using words he won’t understand.
4. **Short** - There is a great power in brevity. Don’t overwrite. But if you still do, just cut it short.

5. **Active** - Use the active voice. This is what makes writing more direct and clear.

## LESSON 8 – 5 SIMPLE STEPS TO REMARKABLY INSPIRATIONAL WRITING

The 5 simple steps you must take to make your writing remarkably inspirational.

1.  **Find your passion**

- Find what you’re passionate about and that sets your soul on fire. As a writer, when you are passionate, it will come out through in your articles.

2.  **Capture inspiration**

- Inspiration can come in any form and at any time. For me, the moments of maximum inspiration come when I go for my morning walks, when I’m playing with my kids, and at midnight.

3.  **Get over that nagging fear**

- Everyone has a little bit of fear when it comes to publishing their writing.
- All your writing needs to do is convey the message that you have inside. That’s inspirational enough.

4.  **Experiment with your writing**

- Writing isn’t a manufactured product.
- It’s a product of your mind, and thus you have the flexibility to experiment with it as much as you can, and till you find your true written voice.

5.  **Accept your ‘worst’ critic**

- It’s you…your inner critic. He will always be there to criticize your work, but his intention will always be to help you.
- Just relax and enjoy the amazing capabilities that you already have for writing. Before you know, you will start producing amazingly inspirational content effortlessly.

## LESSON 9 – 10 TIPS FOR ENJOYABLE WRITING

The following 10 tips to bring the joy back to your writing and other areas of your life.

1. Clear your desk
2. Read books on writing
3. Write for yourself
4. Chill out
5. Disconnect
6. Connect
7. Connect with yourself
8. Change your lifestyle
9. Change your setting
10. Expand your mind

## LESSON 10 – WHAT WRITING EVERY DAY TAUGHT ME ABOUT LIVING

The 3 things that writing has taught me about living life in general and creativity in particular:

1. There’s more inside of you than you think
2. Every moment is an opportunity to learn
3. Don’t fear criticism

Back to [[reading]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[reading]: reading.md "Reading"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
